can stars turn into planets a star can't
fail at being a star and start behaving
more planet like they don't have enough
mass to continue shining and become
brown dwarfs these aren't true stars but
they also can't be called planets
they're still more massive and sit in
the middle of their system like any
typical star would what about the other
way around well gas giants like Jupiter
and Saturn are humongous planets that
consist of similar stuff - what stars
are made of but they aren't massive
enough you need a hundred jupiter-like
planets to make one measly lightweight
star and nothing like this can happen as
far as astronomers know so what are
stars made of only around 2% of a star
is something other than helium and
hydrogen which play a key role in its
activity fun fact metals are bad for a
star's longevity but metal-rich stars
are more likely to have planets orbiting
them where do stars come from stars out
in space appear from huge clouds of gas
and dust
these clouds start to shrink because of
their inner gravity at some point they
become so massive and dense it sparks a
reaction of hydrogen fusion soon a
blazing hot protostar appears out of it
how big can a star be the largest star
we currently know of is a luminous
supergiant's for almost as if it were
named after a license plate it could be
up to 17 billion times larger than the
Sun it's also surrounded by a dust cloud
so vast it would take a year for light
to go through it how bright can they get
well the brightest star you can see in
the night sky is serious now that's his
name not its attitude it's so bright
because it's close to us and it's twice
the size and 25 times more
luminous than the Sun but the brightest
star scientists know of is 163 thousand
light years away from the earth and it
shines like nearly 7 million Suns
combined Wow do all stars have planets
at least sun-like stars usually have
planets around them often earth-like
ones too there are many more planets
that don't have any stars than stars
that have no planets some get kicked out
of their systems by other planets
gravitational forces and become rogue
planets
it'd be like Jupiter's gravity somehow
slinging earth out of our solar system
well that's not nice do stars move just
like moons move around planets and
planets around stars stars themselves go
around the center of their galaxy our
own Sun is moving around the Milky Way
going more than 500,000 miles per hour
it goes a full circle every 230 million
years do stars twinkle we see stars
twinkling because we're looking at them
through the Earth's atmosphere the air
is never static it moves and as
turbulences that distort the light of
distant stars planets we sometimes see
in the night sky don't twinkle nearly as
often because they're closer how do
stars life cycles end well mostly when
they stop peddling sun-like stars start
to run out of hydrogen and swell up into
huge red giants the core of a red giant
will eventually run out of resources
again it'll expand and cool down that
star will become a white dwarf
surrounded by a nebula the white dwarf
will continue to cool down until it
becomes a black dwarf but this is only
one way bigger stars burst into
supernovas what's a supernova hey glad
you asked this is what happens when a
gigantic star reaches its limits
collapses and then bursts out with
matter within it supernovas are rare and
dream liebe right events that can leave
huge nebulas behind them or even a black
Hall do all black holes appear from
stars only some of them come from
supermassive stars bursting into
supernovas other black holes appear from
two really dense objects like neutron
stars smashing into each other and there
are supermassive black holes whose
origins are still a mystery for
astronomers one theory is that they
appear when smaller black holes merge
into one
what are neutron stars neutrons are one
of four atomic building blocks the
others are protons electrons and really
stupid ones called morons if the star
that's about to collapse is too big to
become a white dwarf and too small to
become a black hole it'll become a
neutron star they're just a few miles in
diameter but have all the mass of a star
that makes them super dense just a
teaspoon of their material would weigh
billions of tons they also spend
hundreds of times in a second are there
real shooting stars yeah but they mostly
use blanks well what we call a shooting
star is just a small meteor burning
bright in the upper layers of the
Earth's atmosphere but some stars can
move against the usual rotation of their
galaxies they move so fast they can bolt
right out of the galaxy a star can
achieve such speed if a supernova goes
off somewhere nearby and throws it out
of town could a planet have two suns
yes and up to three daughters well stars
often form so-called binary systems
where they spin around some point
between them like two people holding
hands and twirling around some systems
even include more stars news scorpy
probably has seven stars in it systems
with more stars can exist in theory but
they can't be very stable
are there any cold stars well there are
a few in Hollywood that aren't very
friendly actually the coldest and
shiny brown dwarf astronomers ever found
is just eight degrees Fahrenheit and is
still considered a star since it's too
massive to be a planet can a black hole
swallow a star
well black holes don't pull everything
from any distance into them and swallow
all the matter around but as soon as
something crosses the black hole's event
horizon it won't escape the immense
gravity when this happens two stars a
black hole consumes half the star's mass
and the rest gets shredded into streams
that go over the event horizon with time
kind of like playing with your food what
are the closest and farthest stars from
the Sun well the closest star to us is a
dim red dwarf called Proxima Centauri
the smallest one in the Alpha Centauri
trio
it's 4.2 light-years away from the Sun
the most distant star ever discovered is
named Icarus and it's about five billion
light-years from us we can only see it
thanks to the gravitational lensing of a
colossal galaxy cluster oh I could use a
peanut cluster right about now how many
stars are visible from the earth out of
the hundreds of billions of stars in the
Milky Way we won't see an absurd
majority of them they're either hidden
by something or too dim to be visible in
a clear night sky and without any light
to pollute the picture you'll be able to
see around 3000 stars some other objects
you may see our planets distant galaxies
satellites or even the International
Space Station that is a fun thing to see
how old can a star be at first the
Methuselah star was estimated to be
about 16 billion years old the universe
is only 13.8 billion years so you can
imagine scientists confusion further
research proved that this star could be
14 and a half billion years old give or
take 800 million years we had to
carefully count the candles on the
birthday cake we still don't know for
sure if it's older than existence but it
probably formed short
after the Big Bang how many stars are in
the universe there are only scientific
suggestions but there are around 200
billion galaxies in the observable
universe galaxies are different yet an
average galaxy is massive enough to fit
100 billion stars count the rest
yourself
I already feel too dizzy
you